In the last lecture we styled our heading text,
now one thing you might want to do in your application is set some default font size or font family
every text should use.
Now the thing is you can't do this on a wrapping container so you can't set up cascading styles like this,
you can't go to the container and set my default font family should be arial or whatever you want to use, if
you do that, you will actually end up with a warning that this is not supported.
Now doing it on every text input is pretty cumbersome though even if you do outsource them into reusable
building blocks, you have to set it in every building block and if you then decide to switch application
wide, you have to revisit all your text building blocks and exchange it there.
So you could add a new component in the UI folder,
maybe name it main text which should be some master wrapper around all text elements because there's
one cool thing with the tab built-in text element,
you can wrap other text elements with it and there, that's the only exception, the styles will actually
cascade.
You can read more about this in the official documentation but here I'm going to show you how it works.
So first of all, we import react from react of course as always, then we'll import text and stylesheet
from react native and then I'm going to grab a constant, main text where I get some props and where we
return some jsx and you guessed it, we're going to export this as the default.
Now in here, we create a text component where we will set up our master style
so let's set up a styles constant here where we use stylesheet create, pass a javascript object and
in there, I'll add a main text and there, we could set the color to let's say this gray-ish color here
by default.
We could then add the style property to our text and set to to styles main text and then distribute
whatever we pass between the opening and closing tag of our custom component
via props children.
If we save this, we can go to the auth file and import main text from
components
UI main text main text and now wrap whichever text should get our default styling with it,
so wrap heading text with that for example.
If we now save this and we reload the app,
you'll see now we got this gray-ish look here.
Now obviously we still have to wrap everything with this component,
we can't wrap it around the entire application to have every text styling like this because the text component
which we're in the end using here in main text can't wrap a view for example, at least not on Android.
But the big advantage is we now got this master text with some general text styles
and whenever we have text in the application that should be affected by this, we wrap it with that, whenever
we then have a heading, we use that and maybe we would also define a paragraph text so that we have different
text building blocks with different levels of styling that allow us to build reusable UIs with
reusable styles that actually do something like cascading, a really useful pattern to make sure that
if you ever have to change your default text color here, you just do it in one place and everywhere where
you used it, it takes effect.
So I'm switching this back to black effectively making this irrelevant but you still see the pattern, I guess.